# RoomAcoustiC++: Real-time Acoustics Library
## Description
RoomAcoustiC++ (RAC) is a C++ library for real-time room acoustic modelling.
At a high level it consists of a combined image edge ([IE](https://doi.org/10.1051/aacus/2021010)) and feedback delay network (FDN) model that can be applied to an arbitrary triangulated mesh.
The repo includes visual studio projects for building a DLL (windows) or SO (linux/android) library that can be interfaced from other applications.
The original version of RAC can be found [here](https://github.com/jmannall/RoomAcoustiCpp), and this is an extension of it featuring an extended model for late reverberation.

## Capabilities
* 6 degrees of freedom for the source and receiver
* Dynamic geometry (if single-FDN late reverb is used)
* Binaural spatialisation including custom HRTFs
* Non-shoebox rooms
* Geometry dependent early reflections
* Diffraction modelling
* FDN late reverberation (two models available)

## Acoustic model
The IE model configuration is user controlled.
This includes toggling direct sound, reflection, diffraction, diffracted reflection paths, late reverberation and setting the maximum reflection/diffraction order of the model.
Multiple diffraction models are implemented including: Biot-Tolstoy-Medwin ([BTM](https://doi.org/10.1121/1.428071)), Uniform Theory of Diffraction ([UTD](https://doi.org/10.1109/PROC.1974.9651)), Neural network model ([NN-IIR](https://doi.org/10.17743/jaes.2022.0107)) and Universal Diffraction FIlter Approximation ([UDFA](https://doi.org/10.1109/TASLP.2023.3264737)).
Two different models are provided for late reverberation, both based on FDNs.
The first late reverberation model (SingleFDN) is based on the RAZR model proposed by Wendt et al. with modifications to support diffraction and non-shoebox rooms.
The second late reverberation model (RAVES) is based on the MoD-ART model proposed by Scerbo et al..
It is based on precomputed data [generated by analyzing the acoustic environment](https://github.com/Matteo-Scerbo/RAVES-Preprocessing/).

## Getting started
The central control of the software is in the [context.h](DiffractionPlugin/include/Spatialiser/Context.h) file.
The [main.cpp](DiffractionPlugin/source/Spatialiser/Main.cpp) file includes all the functions exposed to the DLL and SO plugins.
The full acoustic model can be controlled through these functions.

## Aknowledgements
The project utilises the 3D Tune-in toolbox for binaural processing.
The forked 3dti_AudioToolkit repository includes all the required files for use with RAC.
Some small changes have been made for the purposes of compatibility between the source files.

## License
RoomAcoustiC++ is currently released under a GPL-3.0 license, inherited from the 3D Tune-in toolbox library.
In a future update, we plan to replace 3DTI and release RoomAcoustiC++ under a more flexible license.
