# Creating room geometry

To add geometry to RAC, create an empty GameObject and add the `RACMesh` or `RACMeshLoader` script.

## RACMesh
Assign any 3D objects (e.g. quads, cubes) as children of the GameObject with the `RACMesh` component.
Quads are recommended over planes due to the reduced number of triangles in the default Unity mesh.

### Modify acoustic properties

A number of properties can be modified in the `RACMesh` component to control the acoustic behaviour of the room.

- **Room Dimensions**: The primary dimensions of the room in meters (for a shoebox room this would be the width, height, depth). This controls how quickly the late reverberation echoes build up. Larger dimensions result in longer delay lines with the FDN and a sparser build up of late reverberation.
- **Volume**: The volume of the room in cubic meters. This is used to calculate the late reverberation time (T60) if a Sabine or Eyring's formula is selected in the `RACManager`. A larger volume results in a longer reverberation time.
- **Absorption Skew**: This scales the absorption coefficients of the mesh surfaces. This affects both early reflections and late reverberation (if using Sabine or Eyring's formula).

## RACMeshLoader
This is designed for preprocessed static environments and can take advantage of the more advanced MoD-ART late reverberation model.

If you want to use a custom environment, the first thing you'll need to do is analyze it with MoD-ART.
Follow the instructions on [the MoD-ART repo's main page](https://github.com/IoSR-Surrey/MoD-ART) to create the following files describing your acoustic environment:
```
YourEnvironmentName/
├── materials.csv       <-- User-provided
├── mesh.mtl            <-- User-provided
├── mesh.obj            <-- User-provided
├── MoD-ART.csv         <-- Generated by MoD-ART
└── path_indexing.csv   <-- Generated by MoD-ART
```
Once the analysis is complete, place these five files in <nobr>`Unity project/Assets/Resources/PythonExports/YourEnvironmentName/`.</nobr>

The MoD-ART pre-processing will also generate several other files as part of the analysis.
Only the five listed here are necessary for use in Unity; don't place the extra files inside the <nobr>`Assets/Resources`</nobr> folder to avoid bloating the Unity project's size.


## Disable Mesh Renderers

It can be useful to use a simplified mesh with a low number of triangles for acoustic rendering.
This reduces the computational load for the image edge model and ensures any latency due to updating the acoustic model is minimized.
A second mesh with a higher triangle count can be used for visual representation without affecting the acoustic calculations.
To simplify this process `RACMesh` and `RACMeshLoader` provide an option to disable the mesh renderers of all child objects at runtime.

- **Disable Mesh Renderers**: If enabled, this will disable the mesh renderers of all child objects at runtime.